---
layout: post
title: Geting Out of Your Comfort Zone
date: 2014-04-30
description: Design happens out of your comfort zone.
keywords: design,testing
---

I grew custom to designing behind a desk.  In design school, my professors encouraged us to hold studio time.  They also encouraged user involvement and testing.  At my internship and later full time job, part of my responsibilities incuded usability testing.  This was scheduled and sporadic.  The rest of the time I was either in my cubicle or at a clients site designing heads down.  It was not until I started Great Job that I took the full plunge into incorporating codesigning with my partner Jordan, clients, and users.

While justifying my designs to senior engieers, I realized that everything we were working on was based on an assumption.  Designing solutions for poor current software was not as difficult as starting something new.  In most cases, any improvement I spearheaded was a drastic one.  After conducting usability studied worldwide, I began to realize the double edged sword of usability testing.  In one regard I wielded it as an awesome power to get a pulse on the current direction of design.  In another, I dreaded not being able to involve users in a more informal setting earlier in the project.  I mastered formal usability studies, but longed for incorporating informal guerilla style user research.  Without stakeholder buy in and budget, I leveraged usability testing to the maximum potential before departing on my own endeavor.

With Great Job, I suddenly had a serious voice in structuring projects.  Jordan and I are both believers in early user involvement, throughout the design process and lifecycle of product.  We began agressively pitching ourselves as designers who rely on testing as a core tenant of the process not part of the process.   We believe in rapid iteration, design workshops and coffee shop user research.  Fortunately we found a few clients early on who bought into our methodologies and processes.

I also embrace designing from a variety of locations.  A majority of the time I split my time between Chicago, Dallas, and New Orleans.  We also travel to San Francisco fairly frequently as well.  Within these locations I split my time between coworking spaces, coffee shops, studios and client locations.  This enables me to change things up when I'm getting feeling stagnant.  It also forces me into different styles of design.  When I need to get heads down work done, I tend to work out of coffee shops and coworking spaces.  When I'm codesigning I frequent the studio.  When we're involving users, this is often at coffee shops.

I also split my time between the glow of my macbook pro and my notebook.  I find that working in a notebook first allows me to waste less time on a computer.  I also feel that the constraints of thinking freely with a pen help to get ideas out and down, and enables me to refine them later on my computer.

Involving users provides critical feedback early on, and encourages more iteration and less turd polishing mentality.  Changing location forces me to work in different ways.  Removing the computer screen forces me to think in the world and work on the computer.  Change is a powerful catalyst, regardless of your change.  Life is a big experiment, so why not?
